✅ CAE 

Reflect on a time when you questioned or challenged a belief or idea. What prompted your 
thinking? What was the outcome? 
My mom bailed me out of jail. 
“Don’t tell your cousin,” she whispered, slipping $50 into my hand. In our house, justice was 
flexible: when the convict was eleven, teary, and losing at Monopoly. Previously, my competitive 
streak, reading the rulebook cover-to-cover and enforcing it zealously, had gotten me banished. 
Now, on the receiving end of the Chance Card, I was desperate for the flexibility I'd never 
granted others. 
 
Four years later, I landed behind bars again: metal, not cardboard. My supervisor at the NGO 
Dusri Duniyaa, tired of my speeches hailing punitive justice as a deterrent, implored me to come 
see firsthand. So there I was, clutching my volunteer badge as the door to the women’s ward of 
Amritsar Central Jail clanged shut. A child’s cry echoed from somewhere down the corridor, an 
unexpected sound. 
 
I braced to be met with cold stares of dangerous offenders who deserved punishment. Instead, I 
met Sanaa: married off at fourteen to a gambling addict, she’d been living in limbo for seven 
years—awaiting trial longer than the maximum sentence for her alleged crime, her five-year-old, 
Siraaj, beside her. Zero-sum logic had long shaped my perception of the world: someone else’s 
win in Monopoly was my loss; a criminal’s gain, a victim’s pain. But when the game itself was 
rigged, that logic collapsed. When one person lost, everyone did: punishment without structural 
support led to reoffending, creating more victims. 
 
I couldn’t rewrite the rulebook, yet, but I could help those it failed. Initially, the answer seemed 
obvious: get the innocents like Sanaa out. I started working on a pro-bono legal aid platform, but 
as it gained traction, I noticed the limp in Sanaa’s gait: a result of beatings from loan sharks. For 
some, financial hardships made freedom worse than confinement. Soon enough, my rush to 
impose quick fixes was replaced by a humbling need to understand the problem. 
 
Behind every cell door was a different story; with each visit, new problems surfaced. I noticed 
needle marks on arms and jittery knees, traces of Punjab’s drug epidemic, so my volunteers and I 
planted gardens, taught yoga, even hosted “Prison Olympics” to ease withdrawal. Then, the same 
faces began reappearing in workshops after reoffending; rehabilitation inside meant little without 
support outside. We experimented with a job portal, hit the wall of corporate stigma, and 
adapted, shifting to an entrepreneurship fund backing low-cost, low-risk ventures. 
 

Three years in, I stand barefoot in Sanaa’s home, a single rented room, setting up her GPay. $300 
a month isn’t much, but it has liberated her from inherited debts. Siraaj is in school. Her elder 
son, Uzair, wants to start a business—like his mom. 
 
Boarding school breaks mean home visits across my hometown to check on beneficiaries. 
Yesterday, I was speaking to a teenager's school administration on behalf of a confused mother. 
Today, I’m scouring the internet for the cheapest pesticide-sprayer for our newest entrepreneur.  
 
Sometimes, the die slips through my own fingers, and I realize helping others requires asking for 
and accepting help myself: from jail superintendents, lawyers, and fellow volunteers. 
 
Along the way, I too have been liberated: from the confines of my black-and-white worldview. In 
seminars debating humanitarian intervention, I argue differently, considering cultural relativism 
where I once clung to moral absolutes. From a Somali driver in Boston, I learn how clan 
systems, critiqued in academia, provide order when formal governance fails. The question has 
changed from "How can you think that?" to "Why do you think that?" Sometimes, I change 
people’s minds. Sometimes, they change mine. 
 
Each experience has sent me back to GO, gaining clarity through confusion, humility through 
failure, mentors through those I serve. I still have 11-year-old Mannat’s thirst for justice, only 
now, it’s quenched by preventing the next victim. I still read rulebooks cover-to-cover, but 
simultaneously question whom they serve, whom they miss, and how I can contribute to making 
them more just. 
 

✅ Dartmouth 

As you seek admission to Dartmouth’s Class of 2030, what aspects of the college’s academic 
program, community, and/or campus environment attract your interest? How is 
Dartmouth a good fit for you? (100 words) 
 
Dartmouth will complete my sentences. 
 
“Justice is...” refined at DPU debates, where dialogue expands horizons. Then, it’s practised as I 
design programs for prisoner rehabilitation and reintegration in New Hampshire through the 
Dartmouth Prison Justice Initiative.  
“Knowledge means...” agency and interdisciplinarity. D-Plan lets me carry Professor Lyall’s 
ethnic conflict prediction methods to Indo-Myanmar borderlands through Global Dartmouth, and 
lessons from Ethics Institute to DALI Lab as I refine my surveillance model.  
“Community is...” one that explores everything from the whimsical (Occam’s depths) to the wild 
(Mount Moosilauke’s trails). 
At Baker-Berry, I find not just answers, but questions worth pursuing. Together.  
 
 

There is a Quaker saying: Let your life speak. Describe the environment in which you were 
raised and the impact it has had on the person you are today. (250 words)  
 
May 2025: Boarding school friends’ phones flooded with patriotic music and tricolor reels, while 
mine pinged with photos of bomb debris in my best friend’s backyard and panicked voice notes 
from terrified siblings.  
 
India's recent military operation against Pakistan was only the latest flashpoint. Growing up 
twenty minutes from the border, I heard Grandpa's stories of partition, rushed home whenever 
tensions escalated, and grew accustomed to xenophobic rhetoric contaminating media, politics, 
and conversation. 
 
Every Sunday, though, Grandpa took me to volunteer at the Golden Temple’s kitchen. There, I’d 
see posh foreigners next to day laborers, Sikh families beside Muslim travelers, and believers 
breaking bread with atheists. Here, I learned you can only fight hate with love.  
 
I carry this love, from MUN negotiations to service in Indo-Myanmar borderlands. At food 
drives, we encourage inter-mixing of communities. When we run one food-packet short, a 
Burmese refugee shares his with an internally-displaced Indian. We help a craftsman, once a 
drug-mule, start a bamboo-furniture business; he offers work to someone of the 'other' ethnicity 
caught in the same struggle. Borders don’t vanish overnight; the world doesn't change, but 
someone's world does. It's a start. 
 
This continues as I revel in “respectful discussion across differences” at Dartmouth Dialogues. 
On DCSI's Immersion trips along the Texas-Mexico border with peers who've endured drug 
smuggling and displacement, I understand each without questioning the other. 
 
Love isn't uniformity, and the steel bucket gets heavier if you keep walking alone. At 
Dartmouth—with more hands—we’ll carry heavier buckets, further.  
 
 

Required of all applicants, please respond to one of the following prompts in 250 words or 
fewer. 
 
What excites you?  
I’m Spider-Man. 
The moment the debate motion is announced—This House supports euthanasia—my web begins 
to spin.  
Side Opposition, a coin’s toss decides. I don’t yet know what I believe; I’m excited to find out. 
Three brains begin world-building, anchoring our case in reality: Who decides “terminal” in 
practice? What’s “voluntary” when healthcare is expensive? We giddily stumble upon forgotten 
knowledge in obscure mental corners like treasure in an attic. 
Two poles, the motion and my claim, emerge on opposite ends of a blank sheet. The web grows 
in frantic bursts: multicolored ink, haywire arrows, boxes inside boxes. A single logical gap and 
the prey—the win—could fall through. So, teammates yank at loose ends: upholding the right to 
life isn’t enough; why is the right to life even important? We re-weave. Eureka! From liquid silk 
to tensile structure, I’m ready to open the round.  
For forty-two minutes after my speech, I’m on the prowl: ears catching wobbly premises, hand 
writing on autopilot, brain conjuring rebuttals to the last argument while absorbing the next. 
 
Strike. The reply speech, the last word. A cheeky opening earns table-bangs. A nod to my 
teammate, “Ananyeveer already told you,” elicits a proud smile I catch in my peripheral view. I 
weigh autonomy against harm, consent against pressure, flipping opponents’ arguments against 
them. 
 
In the wise words of Uncle Ben, with great power (of words) comes great responsibility (not to 
wound). I hug teammates and befriend opponents; win or loss, I’m raring to go for another 
round.  

✅ Columbia 

List a selection of texts, resources and outlets that have contributed to your intellectual 
development outside of academic courses, including but not limited to books, journals, 
websites, podcasts, essays, plays, presentations, videos, museums and other content that 
you enjoy. (100 words or fewer) 
 
Books: Discipline and Punish; Imagined Communities; Poetics; Think Again; Wild Swans; A 
Room of One’s Own; Selected Poems of Wisława Szymborska; The Iliad; Why Nations Fail; 
Madam Secretary: A Memoir; Neurodegenerative Diseases: From Molecular Basis to Therapy; 
Agatha Christie’s works 
Podcasts/YouTube: CrashCourse (Philosophy, Sociology, Linguistics); Ologies; Left, Right and 
Centre; The Future of Everything; Figuring Out 
Documentaries/Films/TV: Black Hawk Down; Inside the World’s Toughest Prisons; Get Out; 
The Shawshank Redemption; Zootopia; Dead Poets Society 
Courses: Justice; Mathematics of Democracy, Politics and Manipulation; Law and Genetics 
Other: Hoa Lo Prison Museum; Partition Museum; Khalid Albaih’s political cartoons 
 

Tell us about an aspect of your life so far or your lived experience that is important to you, 
and describe how it has shaped the way you would learn from and contribute to 
Columbia's multidimensional and collaborative environment. (150 words or fewer) 
 
Living minutes from the volatile India-Pakistan border, I’ve had my fair share of tumultuous 
experiences. But Sundays were for tranquility. 
 
Every week, Dadu and I volunteered at the Golden Temple’s community kitchen. With a steel 
bucket tugging at my arm, I’d pass Sikh families beside Muslim travelers, believers breaking bread 
with atheists. We served everybody, no questions asked. A city butchered over faith used faith 
itself to heal, and I learned you can only fight hate with love.  
 
I carry this love, from Model UN negotiations to service in Indo-Myanmar border villages. I hope 
to bring this to Columbia: diffusing disagreements at CPU’s “Boba & Bingo” or facilitating 
productive discourse between classmates from diverse backgrounds in Professor Simpson’s border 
anthropology seminars.  
Love isn’t uniformity, and differences don’t vanish overnight, but the steel bucket keeps getting 
heavier if you walk alone. At Columbia, with more hands, I’ll carry bigger buckets, further.  
 
 
 

At Columbia, students representing a wide range of perspectives are invited to live and 
learn together. In such a community, questions and debates naturally arise. Please describe 
a time when you did not agree with someone and discuss how you engaged with them and 
what you took away from the interaction. (150 words or fewer) 
 
Volunteering at a rescue home for trafficked girls in Hyderabad, I thought of creating awareness by 
filming a documentary about them. The benefits seemed undeniable: visibility, destigmatization, 
reintegration.  
 
Under debating logic, the round was mine. But Razia, one of the residents, felt differently. 
 
“What if this prevents them from finding jobs?”  
“They don’t want relatives recognizing them!”  
 
I suggested blurring faces and muffling voices, but no technical fix could address the underlying 
issue: they simply didn't want to.  
 
So, we changed formats and initiated a pen-pal program instead: some girls wrote to school 
students, and stigmas slowly subsided. Others contacted survivors who'd rebuilt their lives and 
found renewed inspiration. Both sides opened their hearts and held space for each other.  
 
I learned an important lesson that day: some stories, while needing to be told, weren't mine to tell. 
With compromise and patience, we all won, even though my motion failed. 
 

In college/university, students are often challenged in ways that they could not anticipate. 
Please describe a situation in which you have navigated through adversity and discuss how 
you changed as a result. (150 words or fewer) 
 
When debate notecards became blurry and test scores turned indecipherable, classrooms were 
replaced by ophthalmologist clinics. Attempting to keep the lines straight on an Amsler grid, I 
tried inching my way back from 6/45 to 6/6. 
 
The diagnosis? Retinal detachment. Sitting with my head down for four hours a day and having 
my devices confiscated meant one sense had to be replaced with another: listening. I traced tonal 
patterns of conversations I’d once rushed through, and learned trigonometry guided by a patient 
friend’s voice.  
 
Post-surgery, even as eyesight recovered, listening remained indispensable. As a debater, I 
engaged with the arguments, not my notecards. As a mentor, feedback became responsive, not 
rehearsed. As a friend, I understood when being heard mattered more than being helped. 
 
Between black spots dancing mid-debate and letters wobbling during exams, I’ve learned to stay 
on track even when I can’t see the finish line.  
 

Why are you interested in attending Columbia University? We encourage you to consider 
the aspect(s) that you find unique and compelling about Columbia. (150 words or fewer) 
 
My antenna catches various signals: pensioners’ homes in rural Rajasthan and Vietnam’s Hoa Lo 
Prison Museum. Now, it turns toward the frequencies emanating from Columbia’s Core. 
In Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization seminars, I’ll actively deconstruct 
texts—from Ambedkar to Machiavelli—rather than inherit conclusions. After “Philosophy, 
Justice, and Activism,” I’ll segue into tutoring inmates at NY’s correctional facilities as a Just Ideas 
intern, grounding theories of justice by engaging with those they affect.  
The Science Requirement will expand my antenna’s range, and classes like “Computing in 
Context” will enable me to refine my surveillance model, SecureSense. Through conversations with 
fellow entrepreneurs at CSL, I’ll address important ethical questions: What happens when my 
algorithm gets it wrong? Whose data am I using? Did they consent?  
Whether it’s participating in the Bad Poetry Contest or researching pensions with the Center on 
Indian Economic Policies, my antenna keeps scanning; Columbia will tune it.  
 
 
 

What attracts you to your preferred areas of study at Columbia College? (150 words or 
fewer) 
 
"I cook in India and eat in Myanmar." While interviewing the chieftain of Northeast India's 
Longwa village, I was struck by how colonial cartography carved fault lines between 
once-peaceful groups. 
 
Ethnic violence, purportedly emanating from cultural heterogeneity, has long plagued India's 
Northeast. When recent tensions in Manipur displaced 60,000, I wondered how 
Mizoram—geographically adjacent, demographically near-identical—remained peaceful. Was 
conflict born of mistrust or manufactured for political gain?  
 
From Middle Eastern Kurds split across four countries to Tohono O'odham resisting the 
U.S.-Mexico line, why prioritise nationality over ethnicity, language, lived community?
 While 
Westphalia offers tidy answers, reality is messier—from multinationals slipping between 
jurisdictions to maps disregarding ethnic ties predating them.  
 
Order has been forced onto our world, but sociology’s messiness excites me. Designing 
border-sensitive policies through the SIPA Joint Degree and understanding how Zo people 
maintain unity across India, Myanmar, and Bangladesh with CWP’s Barriers and Borders 
Project, I’ll reimagine systems molded to communities.  
 
 
"I cook in India and eat in Myanmar." While interviewing the chieftain of Northeast India's 
Longwa village, I was struck by how colonial cartography carved fault lines between 
once-peaceful groups. 
 
Ethnic violence, purportedly from cultural heterogeneity, has plagued India's Northeast. When 
tensions in Manipur displaced 60,000, I wondered how Mizoram—geographically adjacent, 
demographically near-identical—remained peaceful. Was conflict born of mistrust or 
manufactured for political gain? 
 
From Middle Eastern Kurds split across four countries to Tohono O'odham resisting the 
U.S.-Mexico line, why prioritise nationality over ethnicity, language, community? While 
Westphalia offers tidy answers, reality is messier—from multinationals slipping between 
jurisdictions to maps disregarding ethnic ties predating them. 
 
Order has been forced onto our world, but sociology's messiness excites me. Designing 
border-sensitive policies through the SIPA Dual Degree and understanding how Zo maintain 
unity across India, Myanmar, Bangladesh with CWP's Barriers and Borders Project, I'll 
reimagine systems molded to communities. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

✅ Penn 

Write a short thank-you note to someone you have not yet thanked and would like to 
acknowledge. (We encourage you to share this note with that person, if possible, and reflect 
on the experience!) (150-200 words) 
 
To the most formidable Pac-Man player, Sunita Di,   
 
Remember the day Dadu (Grandpa) bit my finger while I fed him? As his Huntington’s 
progressed, my family, well-intentioned yet misguided, reacted by limiting our time together. 
You, instead, handed me a spoon to replace my hands, steadied his fingers so we could keep 
playing Pac-Man, and steered his wheelchair so our nightly walks could continue. Even on days 
he couldn’t recall my name, you brought me back to him.  
 
From angry outbursts to physical deterioration, you stayed by Dadu’s side only because he was 
fond of you. You stood firmly by my side, too. As I received the news of his passing halfway 
through hosting a fundraiser at school, you kept me going: “Students in Kota are counting on 
you. He’d be proud.” 
 
How did you care for our family, and for your ailing mother, too? Your selflessness overawes 
me, Sunita Di, and we’re lucky to have received it (along with your Sufi playlists, currently on 
repeat). 
 
Toxic proteins may have strangled Dadu’s neurons, but you never let it strangle our relationship. 
Because of you, this granddaughter remembers her Dadu fondly, not fearfully. For that, I’m 
eternally grateful. 
 
Love,  
Mannat 
 

How will you explore community at Penn? Consider how Penn will help shape your 
perspective, and how your experiences and perspective will help shape Penn. (150-200 
words) 
Forty-thousand years ago, humans painted stories on cave walls because isolation meant death. 
We survived by sharing who the predators were, where water could be found, and which berries 
killed whose cousin. 
Survival still requires translation. Community at Penn will transcend linguistic barriers: my 
Wharton Learning Team will speak in objective numbers while “Anthropology of the Economy” 
seminars will echo subjective lived experiences. I’ll translate both ways: explaining microfinance 
for trafficking survivors and humanizing regression models with the faces of pensioners from 
rural Rajasthan. 
From fellow Penn Debate Society members, I’ll learn new dialects (APDA to BP); through Penn 
for Youth Debate, I’ll share the ones I’m fluent in, coaching Philly kids the way I coached my 
middle-school team. Taking a step back with the Reentry Debate Initiative, I’ll continue 
empowering silenced ex-convicts, helping rediscover their voice and reintegrate into society. 
In Professor Simmons’ seminars, Quakers with diverse personal histories will probe global 
“border-thickening” together. If translation falls short, we’ll create a shared vocabulary; Penn 
will introduce new words altogether.  
Penn creates polyglots. Not the kind who order coffee in five languages, but the kind who make 
sure everyone understands the menu. Some instincts, it turns out, never went extinct. 
 

The flexible structure of The College of Arts and Sciences’ curriculum is designed to 
inspire exploration, foster connections, and help you create a path of study through general 
education courses and a major. What are you curious about and how would you take 
advantage of opportunities in the arts and sciences? (150-200 words) 
The antenna of my mind catches signals from various stations: pensioners' homes in rural 
Rajasthan, gel electrophoresis labs tracing genetic mutations, and Vietnam's Hoa Lo Prison 
Museum. Now, it tunes into CAS’s frequency.  
Through the Civic Scholars Program, Proseminars will segue into Senior Capstone projects, 
grounding policy in practice. I’ll spend one week with the Youth Sentencing and Reentry Project, 
and the next, tutoring refugees at Moder Patshala. In Professor O'Leary's office hours, I'll learn to 
predict ethnic conflict mathematically, then test models through Penn Abroad in Northeast India, 
where my evolving theories just might keep families safe from displacement. 
AI electives will enable me to refine the algorithms behind SecureSense. Working with fellow 
entrePENNeurs at Tangen Hall, I’ll adapt it to contexts ranging from trafficking across Latin 
America to cross-border drug smuggling in Punjab. But peers in “Ethics and the Pursuit of Social 
Impact” will push me to evaluate harder moral questions: What happens when my algorithm gets 
it wrong? Whose data am I using? Did they consent? Does it espouse bias?  
Between my first steps onto Locust Walk and final departure from College Hall, my antenna will 
keep scanning. CAS will refine the signal without narrowing its spectrum. 
 

The Huntsman Program supports the development of globally-minded scholars who 
become engaged citizens, creative innovators, and ethical leaders in the public, private, and 
non-profit sectors in the United States and around the world. What draws you to a 
dual-degree in international studies and business, and how would you use what you learn to 
address a global issue where these two domains intersect? (400-600 words) 
 
Helping my cousin move into his college dorm involved constructing a desk. We spent $200 and 
too much time on what could’ve been assembled professionally for half the price. It was a 
questionable choice for two economics nerds, but we were no homo economicus; we’d fallen to 
the IKEA effect. 
 
I’ve recognized how the tendency to place higher value on things we produce ourselves extends 
to virtually everything, from political systems to enterprises. This isn’t because of bounded 
rationality, but because these systems are calibrated to our needs. What’s built with people 
endures longer than what’s built for them. 
 
This perhaps explains why borders, drawn by colonial treaties and securitized by modern states, 
often fail to capture the complexity of lived experience. I saw this up close growing up twenty 
minutes from one of the world’s most heavily guarded frontiers, the India-Pakistan border. 
Despite fences and floodlights, illicit substances moved freely. Amidst the worst drug epidemic 
nation-wide, some friends disappeared into addiction; others flinched as cross-border terror 
attacks rattled nearby towns. Security was abundant; safety was not.  
 
Traveling 1,800 miles east to the Indo-Myanmar border revealed a contrasting tale. Standing 
inside his bamboo house straddling two nations, the chieftain of Longwa village joked, “I cook 
in India and eat in Myanmar.” Children crossed daily with schoolbags, patients visited whichever 
clinics in Tamu or Moreh had doctors, and traders exchanged betel nut and bamboo furniture 
across the ridge. Micro-economies existed because of the border’s porosity.  
 
Over time, locals built enterprises to overcome structural gaps. Where the Northeast’s vast 
geography rendered individual producers invisible, platforms like NE Origins aggregated 
hundreds of sellers into a single distribution channel. As logistics and payments crippled offline 
commerce, MizRun evolved beyond delivery into a full-stack business enabler, succeeding 
where fast-commerce food giants like Zomato failed.  
 
Yet, despite immense potential, success remained intra-regional. Colonial cartography left the 
Northeast tethered to mainland India through the narrow Siliguri Corridor, inflating freight costs 
and delivery times. Political instability manufactured for electoral gain meant deferred contracts, 
cautious investors, rising insurance premiums, and tourism collapsing. 
 

The pattern of imposed politics undercutting economic potential is global. Ethiopia–Eritrea 
brinkmanship, rooted in Italian boundaries, shuttered border towns and disrupted Red Sea trade. 
Thai–Cambodian disputes over French treaties froze over $10 billion in trade and decimated 
tourism. Where cooperation emerges, results are starkly different: from thriving Franco-German 
cities integrated across the Rhine, to East Africa’s Northern Corridor cutting shipping times  
from Mombasa to Kampala from 18 days to 4. 
 
Through Huntsman, I want to create conditions where systems enable rather than restrain. 
International Studies would sharpen negotiation and realpolitik instincts needed to sustain 
cooperation through leadership changes, while a South Asia Studies concentration would help 
me critically engage with the fault lines wrought by identity politics. Language is central to this 
work: alienating rhetoric has long shaped the violent trajectory of Northeast India. Studying 
linguistic cues will enable me to detect and defuse inflammatory narratives. 
 
With Prof. Burke in International Business, I’ll design people-centric development strategies, 
from eco-tourism to indigenous cooperatives. Wharton’s BEPP concentration will train me in 
engineering cross-border SEZs and supply chains resilient to political shocks. Seminars like 
“Borders and Boundaries in International and Comparative Perspective” will provide theoretical 
grounding, and DevLab@Penn will let me pilot solutions in practice. 
 
When we put together my cousin’s IKEA desk, he assembled it; I made sure we didn’t skip any 
steps. It worked because it was his desk. At Huntsman, I want to engineer systems with the same 
restraint: structured enough to support, flexible enough to let people build for themselves. 
 

✅ Brown 

Brown's Open Curriculum allows students to explore broadly while also diving deeply into 
their academic pursuits. Tell us about any academic interests that excite you, and how you 
might pursue them at Brown. (250 words) 
 
My antenna catches diverse frequencies: pensioners' homes in rural Rajasthan, Vietnam's prison 
museums, and gel electrophoresis labs tracing my grandfather's Huntington's mutation.  
 
At Brown, scattered signals will converge into coherent patterns, the Open Curriculum layering 
seemingly disconnected passions. Through the Swearer Center's Engaged Scholarship 
Certificate, theoretical learnings from “Contesting the Carceral State” seminars will segue 
seamlessly into practicums with the Brown History Education Prison Project.  
 
During Professor Varshney’s office hours, I’ll learn to predict ethnic conflict mathematically, 
then test models through the Saxena Center South Asia fellowship in the Indo-Myanmar 
borderlands. Here, accuracy would enable identifying and diffusing tensions before they displace 
families.  
 
I’ll deconstruct feminist literature in “Weird Women’s Writing, Writing Weird Women” and 
defend morally gray characters in “Devils, Demons, Do-Gooders.” But where stakes are 
personal, I’ll also contribute to Hart Lab’s research delineating cellular and molecular pathways 
pertinent to Huntington's disease. 
 
The S/NC option will allow me to dabble in machine learning coursework so I can refine my 
surveillance model, SecureSense. With fellow entrepreneurs at the Nelson Center, I’ll adapt it to 
contexts spanning trafficking across Latin America and cross-border drug smuggling in Punjab. 
Then, peer discussions in “Data, Ethics, and Society” classes would introduce harder questions: 
What happens when my algorithm gets it wrong? Whose data am I using? Did they consent? 
Does it espouse bias?  
 
Here, each frequency amplifies the other. Between the first and last time I’ll walk through Van 
Wickle Gates, my antenna will keep scanning; Brown will tune it without restricting.  
 
 
 

Students entering Brown often find that making their home on College Hill naturally 
invites reflection on where they came from. Share how an aspect of your growing up has 
inspired or challenged you, and what unique contributions this might allow you to make to 
the Brown community. (250 word limit) 
 
May 2025: My friends’ phones flooded with patriotic music and tricolor reels, while mine pinged 
with photos of bomb debris and panicked voice notes from siblings.  
 
India's recent military operation against Pakistan was only the latest flashpoint. Growing up 
twenty minutes from the border, I heard Dadu’s stories of partition, rushed home whenever 
tensions escalated, and grew accustomed to xenophobic rhetoric contaminating media, politics, 
and conversation. 
 
Every weekend, Dadu and I volunteered at the Golden Temple’s kitchen. Swinging my steel 
bucket, I’d serve Sikh families beside Muslim travelers, believers breaking bread with atheists. 
This bucket followed me to the Indo-Myanmar borderlands; as we ran one food packet short 
during a food drive, a Burmese refugee shared his with an internally displaced Indian. We helped 
a craftsman, forced to be a drug mule, start a bamboo furniture business; he offered work to 
someone of the 'other' ethnicity caught in the same struggle. The borderlands taught me while 
geographical lines are permeable, ones drawn by love can carve out tranquil spaces where people 
collectively heal.  
 
I’ll continue drawing such lines at Brown Political Union’s Slice of Politics events, redirecting 
everyone towards free pizza when tensions rise. Carrying across my role in boarding school as a 
“buddy” to new students, I’ll mediate student conflicts as a BUMP Essential Partner, practicing my 
ability to “engage differences constructively instead of homogenizing.”  
 
Divisions don’t vanish overnight, but the steel bucket gets heavier if you keep walking alone. At 
Brown, with more hands, we’ll carry bigger buckets—further.  
 

Brown students care deeply about their work and the world around them. Students find 
contentment, satisfaction, and meaning in daily interactions and major discoveries. 
Whether big or small, mundane or spectacular, tell us about something that brings you joy. 
(250 word limit) 
I’m Spider-Man. 
The moment the debate motion is announced—This House supports euthanasia—my web begins to 
spin.  
Side Opposition, a coin’s toss decides. I don’t yet know what I believe; I’m excited to find out. Three 
brains begin world-building, anchoring our case in reality: Who decides “terminal” in practice? 
What’s “voluntary” when healthcare is expensive? We giddily stumble upon forgotten knowledge 
in obscure mental corners like treasure in an attic. 
Two poles, the motion and my claim, emerge on opposite ends of a blank sheet. The web grows in 
frantic bursts: multicolored ink, haywire arrows, boxes inside boxes. A single logical gap and the 
prey—the win—could fall through. So, teammates yank at loose ends: upholding the right to life 
isn’t enough; why is the right to life even important? We re-weave. Eureka! From liquid silk to tensile 
structure, I’m ready to open the round.  
For forty-two minutes after my speech, I’m on the prowl: ears catching wobbly premises, hand 
writing on autopilot, brain conjuring rebuttals to the last argument while absorbing the next. 
Strike. The reply speech, the last word. A cheeky opening earns table-bangs. A nod to my 
teammate, “Ananyeveer already told you,” elicits a proud smile I catch in my peripheral view. I 
weigh autonomy against harm, consent against pressure, flipping opponents’ arguments against 
them. 
In the wise words of Uncle Ben, with great power (of words) comes great responsibility (not to 
wound). I hug teammates and befriend opponents; win or loss, I’m raring to go for another round.  
 

If you could teach a class on any one thing, whether academic or otherwise, what would it 
be? (100 word limit) 
 
As the eldest sibling by over a decade, my biggest sacrificial act has been trading FRIENDS for 
Pixar re-runs. 
  
Over time, I’ve found myself oddly invested. How does Ratatouille expose the meritocracy 
myth, commenting on social mobility in discriminatory societies? Is Toy Story’s Sunnyside a 
capitalist hellhole, the toys’ fear of replacement reflective of modern workers’ existential 
precarity? How does Coco, goofy skeletons and guitars, affirm diasporic identity?  
 
Welcome to Politics Through Pixar. Final project: analyze your favorite animated film and prepare a 
hot take; the more obscure the political messaging, the better. Extra credit for bringing 
popcorn—and baby siblings.